THE PROBLEM STATEMENT: BLOCKS THAT MAKE UP THE WORLD
Our world is built from interconnected building blocks—people, communities, systems, resources, information and opportunities. When these foundational blocks are disconnected, inaccessible, underrepresented or missing altogether, people and communities are left behind.

Your challenge is to explore how technology can connect and strengthen the building blocks that make up our world.

‘Blocks’ you could explore

What technology solutions help communities share underused resources, skills, knowledge, or infrastructure?


How can we use technology to bring us closer to our past and connect with other cultures?


How, in a world where technology begins to isolate us, can we find genuine connection with each other?


What tools can we use to ensure accessibility to our essential resources?


The blocks are your oyster :D

About the challenge
This is the annual 24-hour hackathon hosted by SYNCS, the Sydney Computing Society at the University of Sydney from the 29th-30th August. To be an eligible participant, you need to be a current University student who is over 18 years old in Australia.

Some things to look forward to for SYNCS HACK 2026 includes:

Industry mentors from major tech companies
Careers fair and industry workshops
Over $7000 in prizes for winning teams!
Free and limited edition merchandise for the first 250 registrations
We'll help people form teams on the day of the event, but feel free to organise teams beforehand.

Make sure to follow our Instagram page, and discord for updates!

What to Build
 

You are tasked with building a software product or service within 24 hours. The guidelines for your submission will be specified in the info pack that was sent out via email. More information will also be revealed during the Opening Ceremony (Make sure you attend that!).

For any questions, please use the SYNCS Hack channel on Discord.

Requirements
Your submission must include:

A link to your Git repository (version history to be maintained). Make sure this is a PUBLIC link so judges can view it, otherwise it may result in lower marks.
A succinct description of the project and its features.
A maximum 3-minute video that demonstrates your project. If you pass the preliminary judging round, you can re-use this for the final round of judging, or pitch your project live to the judges.
References to any open source or third party material used in development.
Brief summary of each participant's contribution/role in the project team.
Prizes
$5,000+ in prizes+ other prizes
1st Place
$2,500 in cash
1 winner
2nd Place
$1,500 in cash
1 winner
3rd Place
$1,000 in cash
1 winner
Best UI/UX
1 winner
Q20i Soundcore | Hybrid Active Noise Cancelling Headphones

Best Pitch
1 winner
Anker | Portable Power Bank

People's Choice
1 winner
Logitech G305 | Lightspeed Wireless Gaming Mouse

Best 1st Year Team
1 winner
Soundcore Select 4 Go | Bluetooth Speaker

Best Meme
1 winner
Surprise!...

Judges
Anna Fitzgerald
Anna Fitzgerald
Sydney Genesis

Sashank Argawal
Sashank Argawal
NVIDIA

Michael Brice
Michael Brice

Christian Lacullo
Christian Lacullo
Alloy

Judging Criteria
Idea (15 points)
Is the problem or use case realistic? Is the solution unique or innovative?
Implementation (30 points)
Is your solution functional? Does the solution display impressive technical skills? Does the solution address the use case?
Design (15 points)
Does the solution have a good user experience? Is the solution well-branded and cohesive? Is the UI readable and accessible?
Pitch (10 points)
Is the pitch engaging, clearly addressing the theme and problem statement?